At this point, you've probably heard about, and maybe used, Large
Language Models or LLMs, the near-magical technology that forms the
basis of ChatGPT and a variety of other popular tools. Here at Roppers,
we won't teach you about them at all, but we do expect you to use them
in your pursuit of knowledge. They are truly the future, and figuring
out how to use them in your workflows is going to be the new "digital
native". Grow into security using LLMs and the speed you will improve
will be shocking, but you have to use them the right way.

LLMs are great at some things and terrible at others. They are great at
vocab, providing definitions, rephrasing things, and coming up with
semi-original content. They are pretty terrible at telling the truth all
the time once they get to something they are uncertain about and begin
to "hallucinate" anytime they wind up not having enough training data to
"know" the right answer. 

Personally, I currently recommend Bing Chat. (July 2023) 

Link: <https://www.bing.com/new> 

The way that Bing interfaces with search is in my opinion the optimal
way to use it right now. 

In this beginner course, ChatGPT is able to answer the vast majority of
questions in the assignments. In fact, when I'm feeling like a mad
scientist I actually use ChatGPT to review assignments! This seems very
exciting (and it is), but you will quickly realize what LLMs are good
for and what they are not.

For Roppers, please do not submit LLM written answers, it's annoying and
more importantly, you are trying to build skills and knowledge and if
you don't do the act of writing yourself, it's not going to stick. 

What you should do is use LLMs like a search engine, specifically asking
them technical vocab or programming syntax questions. You can ask LLMs
to explain complicated concepts and use them as basically a somewhat
knowledgeable friend to bounce questions off, and it will work pretty
well, it just might make things up every once in a while. The good thing
about asking technical questions is you can immediately check to see if
those things are true. 

Throughout your journey, and especially at Roppers, use LLMs when the
situation fits. You'll develop a sense of that over time and get better
at prompting as you go. Some problems require the man page, and some
problems require reading pages of documentation, but a great number
these days just require the right question to an LLM. 

We're in the future! 

 
