## History of the Linux Kernel

A kernel is the lowest level of the operating system that interacts with
the hardware. You can consider the kernel the heart of the operating
system.

This means that once the kernel is written, you can build whatever OS
you want on top. UNIX, the ancestor of Linux, was written by Ken
Thompson and Dennis Ritchie at Bell Labs and was the first modern OS.
They were just absolute studs.

[![](https://computerhistory.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Thompson_and_Ritchie_source_unknown.jpg)](https://computerhistory.org/blog/discovering-dennis-ritchies-lost-dissertation/)

It was portable, meaning it could run on different hardware (which was a
big deal at the time) and quickly became the OS of choice. However,
because it was commercially licensed, some hackers (remember that
absolute monstrosity of a Unix family tree?), and specifically a Finn
named Linus Torvalds thought he could do better. 

![](https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/842/d27/083/1643682043502.jpg)

Linus began writing a new kernel, now known as the Linux kernel, as a
one-man show. After sharing it with the world and a few years of
development with others this free, open-source, highly portable kernel
began to take over the world. Better than anything else out there, Linux
quickly rose in popularity and became the dominant Unix-like OS. Since
then, more OS have grown around the Linux kernel, but Linus has held
tightly to his philosophical and technical control of the kernel. The
Penguin runs the show now, but in many different forms. 

[![](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/35/Tux.svg/507px-Tux.svg.png)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux)

## Ubuntu

As the Linux kernel was open-source, it was remixed and edited by plenty
of people who had different philosophies. Competing OSs grew around the
kernel and now there is a thriving ecosystem of open source Linux OSs.
One of the most notable is Ubuntu. Ubuntu is an ancient African word
meaning ‘humanity to others’. It is often described as reminding us that
‘I am what I am because of who we all are’.

A group of developers banded together in 2004 and formed a company named
Canonical, which is responsible for the Ubuntu operating system. They
release Ubuntu for free, in addition to providing consulting services
for companies which use Ubuntu servers.

Ubuntu was derived from the Debian family of Unix-like OSs, so under the
hood a lot of the OS looks like Debian. The primary difference between
between Debian and Ubuntu is that Ubuntu is meant to be easy to set up
and use for beginners, while Debian is targeted at a more advanced
crowd. As a result of its ease of use, we will be using Ubuntu in this
course.

There are a lot of people who care deeply about Operating Systems and
programs and which ones you use, but those people are wrong. Whatever is
easiest to use for the task at hand is the correct option, and you
should ignore their attempts at being ultra nerds. Smile and wave,
especially if they are telling you about "Gentoo" or "Arch", then just
go back to Ubuntu until you develop a preference for yourself.

[![](https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/fd8/510/a56/1643682019276.jpg)](https://xkcd.com/456/)
