# Learning Linux Commands

<a href="https://xkcd.com/1168/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank"><iframe allowfullscreen class="fr-draggable" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1UpsB68yyEs?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe><br />
</a>

<a href="https://xkcd.com/1168/" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><br />
</a>

<a href="https://xkcd.com/1168/" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><img
src="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/28e/9be/d20/1629593366331.jpg"
class="fr-fic fr-dii"
srcset="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/28e/9be/d20/1629593366331.jpg?width=1920 1x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/28e/9be/d20/1629593366331.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=2 2x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/28e/9be/d20/1629593366331.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=3 3x" /></a>

  

Over the next few sections you will be learning the basic commands
required to operate from the terminal in Linux.

It is important to remember that there is no need to memorize...
anything, at all, in this entire field, because you can always just have
a series of cheat sheets and notes available to you.

But the basics, like command line and text editing, will be used over
and over again. In a best case scenario, you are now using Linux for
everything and are getting a fully immersed experience. If you use the
command line for everything it makes it so you don't even have to think
about it eventually.

The first resource you will always have on this journey, no matter what
system, whether you have internet access, whatever, is [man
pages](https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/). If you are on Linux
system, you should almost always be able to access an offline version of
the man pages by typing '$man commandName'. For example, if you want to
learn more about 'ls' you type '$man ls'. If your VM (or in this case a
weird browser based emulator) doesn't have manpages, you can always use
an online resource like
<https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/ls.1.html>. No matter what, if
you want to learn how to use a command, you can figure it out because
you always have access to the man pages.

Something that is faster than looking it up in the man pages is to
looking up longer commands on a cheatsheet. There is no expectation to
remember every command and incantation, and there certainly isn't an
expectation you build things from scratch every time. Not to mention,
there are awesome cheatsheets out there. Also, you can make your own if
you wind up doing specialized tasks often. I recommend you print one out
now
<a href="https://images.linoxide.com/linux-commands-cheat-sheet-A4.pdf"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">like this one</a> and put it on your desk
or tape it to the wall near you. If you don't have a printer or want to
save ink, just save it to your desktop. When you find things you want to
remember, write it on a separate piece of paper or in a text file on
your desktop so you can consult it later.

Another great resource is
<a href="https://explainshell.com/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://explainshell.com/</a>. We can type commands into
them, with all the associated flags, and we will get a human readable
explanation of what is going on.

I'd say, when I am doing stuff on the command line, about 50% of the
time the commands are common enough for me to do off the top of my head.
20% of the time I use a cheatsheet I have nearby. 20% of the time I
google the command I am trying to use and try to figure out the usage
and flags required. \<1% of the time I will use local man pages to
figure it out.

Finally, if I don't know the command, \~10% of the time I google "how do
I do \_\_\_\_ from linux command line".

So yeah, don't worry about memorizing anything now, but know that
anything in the next few chapters you will want to memorize at some
point. I recommend running through some of the little study guides
linked at the bottom of the course to really drive it home.

If you haven't found yourself a group to learn with, I really recommend
posting in the \#findapartner channel in our slack. If you haven't done
it yet, you really should!
