##  

## This self-guided course is designed to take around 100 hours and teach the most important things required to move on with your journey into computing and security. It is easy to get bogged down in details, but this course attempts to follow the most efficient path possible towards being able to accomplish whatever you need to do with Linux and programming.

The first section is all about 'Improving You' and focuses on the
non-technical side of life. The second section is the 'Site Intro' and
explains some of the site's philosophy. The 'Mindset' section is all
about the thought patterns we need to succeed in this field. These
sections are meant to get you into the right mental state for learning
this material. These sections are intentionally repetitive. I don't just
want you to believe me, I want you to remember *why* you are doing this
when you run up against a challenge.

Finally, after learning the mindset, we get to what you joined this
course for, 'Build a Lab and Learn Linux' where you will install a VM,
learn the basics of Linux, and become very comfortable operating on the
command line. You will also do your first CTF to demonstrate the skills
you have picked up.

After we are comfortable with Linux we will learn 'Programming' with
Python as our first language. This section takes you from zero to
writing larger programs and using Github and modern development
practices to solve real world problems. It will culminate in a
challenging capstone that will leave you ready for most problems you
will come across.

That's the end of our Fundamentals Course; from there you will be
prepared for our follow on courses, depending on what you want to do
next:

-   Introduction to Capture the Flags
-   Hardware and Operating Systems
-   Windows Fundamentals
-   Linux Fundamentals
-   Networking Fundamentals

Thank you for joining us!

  

## Guided Course

With thousands of students, I can't grade every assignment that gets
submitted in the free courses because it winds up being about a hundred
submissions a day! 

If you want to check out the paid [Guided Fundamentals
Course](https://www.roppers.org/courses/guided-fundamentals), it is $50
dollars a month and in return, I grade all your assignments and you get
exclusive access to me and the highly exclusive Daquiri Lounge
community. I think it is a pretty good trade. 

The only difference between the free version vs. guided is that if you
are enrolled in the guided course, I will be tracking your progress,
grading your assignments, and making sure you are following along the
timeline you set for yourself. If you are in the free version, I still
care about you deeply and will answer questions you have in support
channels, but I won't have the time to provide as much-individualized
attention. I promise that myself and the community will take care of you
no matter what. 

  

## Working in a Group

This course wants you to work in a group of two or more because I've
found that it really improves your learning experience and you are much
more likely to complete the course. If you don't have any friends
working through this course with you, later in the first section I'll
post a link to our messaging app where we have a dedicated channel for
finding partners. Everyone needs to find partners so don't worry if you
are here by yourself! 

If you have friends in the real world who might be interested in this,
contact them or post on social media asking if they are interested in
learning with you. Group accountability makes everything better!

If you don't want to work in a group, totally cool. I'm not going to
harass you for not being in one, plenty of people prefer to go it alone
and use the community we have whenever necessary.

## Jump Ahead

If you are here for technical material and want to jump right in, skip
straight to 'Build a Lab and Learn Linux'. Personally, I think you're
missing out on good stuff, but I'm not here to try to brainwash you if
you don't feel like it, so just skip ahead. I promise it won't hurt my
feelings.
