It has always been very important that this course would always be free.
This comes down to a few key reasons, most of which can be summed up
with: the world is a better place if anyone can learn the basics at any
age, with no more resources than an internet connection. When I was
younger and trying to figure out where to start, this is the exact
resource I would have killed to find, and if I didn't give this away I'd
be doing a disservice to the me's of tomorrow who need a free resource
to get started.

*“If you’re not paying, then you’re not the customer. You’re the
product."*

TL;DR: Roppers is free because I am the only employee, and I don’t plan
on there ever being other employees. Because it’s just me, there are no
salaries, and I minimize hosting costs by using free sites (thanks
github and youtube). I care about privacy, so unlike some other freemium
models, you and your data are not the product. 

If you are a representative of a company or organization who is
interested in sponsoring this site, check out
<https://www.hoppersroppers.org/sponsors.html> for more information. I
see corporate sponsorship as the way forward for me to able to work on
this site forever. 

If you are an individual who wants to support this mission, check out
our Gumroad where you can make one-time or recurring donations.

<https://hoppersroppers.gumroad.com/> 

Overall, the best way for you to help out Roppers, and by extension me,
is to share this site with as many people who are trying to enter the
field as possible. My goal is for this to become known as the best place
on the internet to start, and that can only happen with the support of
students like you loving this course, learning a ton, and then sharing
it with your friends and networks. 

With that out of the way, on to the course! 
