While there was a chance you guessed what Hopper's meant, it is very
unlikely that you have had any idea what Roppers meant, mostly because
it is a word I made up to describe a group of people who ROP. And if you
have never heard of ROP, or Return Oriented Programming before.... that
is not just okay, that is expected, because why on earth would you have
known about that obscure hacking technique before this exact moment in
time.

To quote Wikipedia, "Return-oriented programming (ROP) is a computer
security exploit technique that allows an attacker to execute code in
the presence of security defenses such as non-executable memory (W xor X
technique) and code signing by chaining together carefully chosen
machine instruction sequences to get control of the stack...blah blah
blah"

Don't worry; none of that should have meant anything to you. That would
have made zero sense to me when I was sitting where you are sitting. Two
years into my journey, I would have understood about half of the words.
Now I know what all the words mean, but I rely on my friends who know
more than me if I need to do write my own.

While other sites that attempt to teach this material assume you already
know a great deal of knowledge, we take a different approach to make
learning the fundamentals as approachable as possible. For all of the
great resources out there, and all of the incredible pieces of training,
nothing walks a complete beginner all the way through the process of
developing a strong foundation in the fundamentals. Everyone wants to
learn how to do stuff, but very quickly they realize that there is no
way for them to learn everything.

They're not wrong, the vast and constantly expanding body of knowledge
about this field makes it impossible for anyone to keep up. But what is
most important for the beginner to realize is that with the proper
knowledge of the fundamentals and a firm grasp on the hacker mentality,
that irrepressible drive to learn and to do, nothing is too complex for
them to learn if they put the time in. By managing your high
expectations of yourself, providing constant feedback on your progress,
and bringing you into the community, Roppers is designed to provide the
best first hundred hours of a cyber security education possible.
