# Man-Pages

<iframe allowfullscreen class="fr-draggable" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SMo441TzRsY?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>At
one point, this was the first assignment in the course. That's how
important I believe man-pages are.

I've since moved it back a bit until you have access to a Linux command
line so you can see it in all its glory.

First, think about a command you want to learn about.... you don't know
any yet? Well let's start strong, `man` is the name of the command that
pulls up manpages. So you use `man` by doing this:

``` default
$ man [name of program you are interested in]
```

But what should be the first program we check out the man-pages for...
oh how about `man`?

``` default
$ man man
```

That's meta, man.

<iframe allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen class="fr-draggable" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/kI1PWcTe0W4" title="YouTube video player" width="560"></iframe>

# Always Have a Goal

As a note, [hoppersroppers.org/shell](//hoppersroppers.org/shell) does
not have manpages included. This is because there is so much good
information in them they take up too much space for a tiny shell! Â If
you are in your own VM, look at the output of `man man.` If you are in
the online shell or somewhere else without a VM, use
<a href="https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/man.1.html"
rel="noopener" target="_blank">this online copy of the man-pages</a> and
write down the first three things you don't understand.

Once you have found three things you don't understand: STOP READING! It
will only hurt your head, and there is no need to go any further.
Remember Rule 3 of the Hacker Attitude, "Boredom and Drudgery are
evil."? If you're not getting anything out of something at any point in
this course, don't do it, and leave us feedback that we are wasting your
time. We mean that. You won't hurt my feelings.

The reason I had you write down the first few things you didn't
understand is I want to make it clear to you how useless it would be
right now for you to dive, unguided into the material. Reading a
man-page, with no direction and no firm base to start from is a waste of
your time.

For the rest of the course, and the rest of the time you do anything on
Linux, still can't go wrong to do a quick look at the man-page and get
an idea of what programs can do. Don't read them in their entirety or
try to memorize the functionality, but if you're having problems, always
a good idea to RTFM (or you might get stabbed by your toaster).

<a href="https://xkcd.com/293/" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><img
src="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/f78/440/2db/1629593096332.jpg"
class="fr-fic fr-dii"
srcset="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/f78/440/2db/1629593096332.jpg?width=1920 1x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/f78/440/2db/1629593096332.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=2 2x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/f78/440/2db/1629593096332.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=3 3x" /></a>

# Assignment

Answer in a sentence or two.

Questions:

1.  What is a man-page?

2.  How do I pull up the man-page for the system call "read"?

3.  What can I learn from man-pages?

    Resources:

-   <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_page" rel="noopener"
    target="_blank">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man_page</a>

Answer in the usual format. Please only submit .txt files. No .docx
files, no .odt, no .pdfs please! This makes review easier.

`Use the partner groups I had you make to submit your assignments and get feedback on them, They'll be able to help you with your pre and post-questions.`

``` default
```
