# Over the Wire: Bandit 0-4

<iframe allowfullscreen class="fr-draggable" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8ShdVhAv6ro?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>

  

You might have heard of
<a href="http://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">Over the Wire</a> before, it is a very famous online
wargame.

This is a classic set of challenges that every member of our team has
fought through, and while it takes some time, you should have had enough
experience to figure out what you need to do. It won't be easy, and it
might not be the most fun, but completion of this challenge is the
single greatest determining factor in whether or now you continue along
this journey. This is where you have to grind it out, make things
happen, get stuck, learn things, and really spend some quality time with
man pages.

Use this page to figure out what you need to do for each level:
<https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit0.html>Â 

Let us know if you get stuck on any challenge for longer than a half
hour, we will gladly point you in the right direction. And no cheating!

While there are 25 Bandit levels, at this time we only expect you to be
able to complete 0-4. You should know everything in here, but it will be
a bit hard.

SSH into : `ssh bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220 -l bandit0`

With the password `bandit0`

If you're having trouble figuring out what you should do for level 0,
check out
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2wozdVl3psY" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">this video</a>. I'd make my own, but I hate making
videos.

If you ever get stuck on anything for more than a half hour, message us
in \#techsupport and we will help you out! Don't worry, I have no
problems giving you very specific instructions to get to the next stage.
If your googling keeps popping up Bandit walkthroughs instead of
references, use the search operator -"bandit" to clean up the search
results.

Good luck!!!! We are not going to let you end your journey here!!!
