# Install Ubuntu

<iframe allowfullscreen class="fr-draggable" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vGq5KkuufV8?wmode=opaque" width="640"></iframe>

## Install the Linux operating system Ubuntu using your virtualization software of choice!

We are going to use Ubuntu because it is largely agreed upon to be the
most beginner-friendly and stable of all the Linux operating systems.
There are plenty of other Unix-like OSs that are fine and do generally
the same thing, but I strongly recommend you using Ubuntu to learn.

**If you already have a VM with a Linux image on it, you don't need to
download a new one just for this course. It will not change any aspect
of your experience and there is no need to waste time or space. Just
skip this section.**

An image is what we refer to an Operating System when packaged into a
format that can be run off of a disc, usually having a .iso extension.
We can download .iso's and boot off of the disc or using a USB, but it's
generally easier to use a VM.

<a href="https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop</a>

I could give you more information on what to do for this, but there are
a ton of tutorials and Youtube videos out there. Should be an easy
Google, and the information doesn't change too much. Let us know if you
have any problems, but I recommend going step by step through a
tutorial. This is your first challenge that we are really telling you to
figure it out yourself.

<img
src="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/efb/2c3/9e4/1629586040160.jpg"
title="flybitch" class="fr-fic fr-dii"
srcset="https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/efb/2c3/9e4/1629586040160.jpg?width=1920 1x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/efb/2c3/9e4/1629586040160.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=2 2x, https://files.cdn.thinkific.com/file_uploads/429463/images/efb/2c3/9e4/1629586040160.jpg?width=1920&amp;dpr=3 3x"
alt="alt text" />

Source:
<a href="https://www.instagram.com/thesquarecomics/" rel="noopener"
target="_blank">TheSquareComics</a>

We always try to link to the source of things, even dank memes. It's a
weird thing to care about, but the internet makes it so easy to repost
images without any way of crediting the author, and they're producing
content so might as well throw them a follow.

Memes aside, if you get confused, hit us up in \#techsupport in Slack.
We are happy to help, and this is very complicated.

When you're done, mark this section complete and move forward!

### Tips

If the VM is running slowly, check out how much RAM and the number of
CPUs you have allocated to it. Whatever the recommended settings are is
probably good. Another major cause of poor performance is if the
resolution is set too high. Lower the resolution and the host OS won't
get slammed trying to render the VM window. If you are using Hyper-V,
turn on "Enhanced Sessions" for better performance. If you're having
trouble with anything or it is slow/freezes, hit us up in \#techsupport
in Slack.
